---
{"original_url": "", "content_type": "text", "category": "general"}
---
Why Vibe Coders Should Think Twice Before Swapping ShadCN for Carbon
Perfect — got it. We’re going full conversational, curious, slightly irreverent, but smart and grounded, like a Joe Rogan podcast for vibe coders who are learning enterprise-level lessons while still hacking on their side projects.

Here’s a draft article in that style:

⸻

Why Vibe Coders Should Think Twice Before Swapping ShadCN for Carbon

So you’ve been building side projects, your workflow is tight: Next.js, TypeScript, Tailwind, ShadCN. Your sites look clean, they’re fast, and honestly, you love how quick it is to throw together a feed or a card component. But then someone drops the magic enterprise word: Carbon. IBM, Google-level polish. Suddenly you’re wondering if your little side project is somehow “too indie” to survive in the real world.

Let’s be honest: the urge to upgrade comes from a mix of fear and FOMO. “Enterprise-ready” sounds serious, it looks shiny, and everyone assumes it must be better. But here’s the kicker — if you’re a vibe coder, moving from ShadCN/Tailwind to Carbon is like swapping your skateboard for a tank. You can do it, but you’re going to trade speed, nimbleness, and that sense of flow for something that feels, well… heavy.

The Problem With Enterprise Libraries

Libraries like Carbon are designed for huge teams, strict accessibility standards, and consistent UX across dozens of apps. They’re great if you’re running a 50-dev monorepo for a Fortune 500 client. But if your daily reality is a solo dev iterating on feeds, article cards, or small dashboards, Carbon is overkill. You’re not getting your productivity back — you’re mostly getting pain points: Sass battles, Turbopack quirks, and thousands of lines of CSS to override.

Accessibility Without the Headache

Now, if your goal is actually usable by blind users or anyone relying on assistive tech, ShadCN alone won’t cut it — it’s just raw speed. This is where Chakra UI or Mantine become the sweet spot. Think of them like a “ShadCN-plus”: you keep your Tailwind workflow, but now your buttons, modals, and inputs come with proper ARIA roles, focus management, and keyboard navigation baked in.
	•	ShadCN gives you full control, zero bloat, infinite styling freedom.
	•	Chakra/Mantine give you accessible defaults, less CSS friction, and a smoother path for enterprise clients to nod approvingly at your work.

You don’t need to throw away your flow — you just replace or wrap certain components. One card at a time. One button at a time. Keep the vibe, gain the structure.

How a Hybrid Upgrade Looks

Here’s the vibe coder-friendly way to do it:
	1.	Audit your current ShadCN components – which ones actually interact with users in critical ways? Buttons, modals, tables, forms.
	2.	Swap one component type for Chakra/Mantine – test it in isolation, see if keyboard focus, screen readers, and tab order just work.
	3.	Wrap your Tailwind utilities with Chakra props – this keeps your theme consistent while inheriting accessibility.
	4.	Gradually roll out – don’t rewrite the entire feed in one sprint. One page, one feature, one “aha moment” at a time.

The result? Your site still looks the same, feels the same, but suddenly your side project is enterprise-adjacent and accessible without killing your workflow.

The Takeaway

If you’re a vibe coder in an American enterprise, juggling consulting gigs and your own projects, this is the kind of upgrade that matters: maintain your velocity, level up accessibility, and keep the freedom to experiment. Don’t blindly chase shiny enterprise libraries; think about hybrid adoption, surgical upgrades, and the components that actually affect users.

Because at the end of the day, your users don’t care that you rewrote your cards in Carbon — they care that your site works for them. And if it’s accessible, keyboard-friendly, and readable? That’s the real win.

⸻

If you want, I can follow up with a second part: a step-by-step component-level hybrid roadmap for ShadCN → Chakra that your AI or a new developer could follow like a playbook. It would be totally text, no images, all .MD format, and ready to push to GitHub.

Do you want me to do that next?